Add `microsoft_systemcrypto` setting (#1712)
microsoft/go: eng/doc/fips/README.md

### Build option to use Go crypto if the backend compatibility check fails

> When building a Go program that imports a `crypto` package with a crypto backend, the build will check that the build environment and target are compatible with that backend. If not, the build will fail with an error. For example, a common unsupported build configuration is `GOOS=linux CGO_ENABLED=0 GOEXPERIMENT=opensslcrypto`. The OpenSSL backend requires cgo, so the build fails:

Reviewer: I think this wording ends up with a similar ambiguity. Shifting the backend mention later works nicely IMO.

```suggestion
When building a Go program that imports a `crypto` package, the build will check that the build environment and target are compatible with the crypto backend being used, if any. If it's incompatible, the build will fail with an error. For example, a common unsupported build configuration is `GOOS=linux CGO_ENABLED=0 GOEXPERIMENT=opensslcrypto`. The OpenSSL backend requires cgo, so the build fails:
```

        Please check your build environment and build command for a reason one or more of these tags weren't specified.
```

We recommend fixing the build environment to allow the crypto backend to be used. (Enable cgo.)

These are other fixes that may be used on a case-by-case basis:

- Remove `GOEXPERIMENT` entirely. This intentionally doesn't comply with the internal Microsoft crypto policy or FIPS, so for builds within Microsoft, this should only be done under a documented exception.

> - Refactor the code to not use a `crypto` package. For example, when computing a hash for not cryptographic purposes, there are several alternatives in the Go standard library that don't require a crypto backend, such as `hash/fnv` or `hash/maphash`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Refactor the code to not use a `crypto` package. For example, when computing a hash for non-cryptographic purposes, there are several alternatives in the Go standard library that don't require a crypto backend, such as `hash/fnv` or `hash/maphash`.
```

### Go 1.25 (Aug 2025)

- Running `go version -m` on a binary which uses a system crypto backend now shows the `microsoft_systemcrypto=1` build setting.

>  - It is now possible to build a binary that doesn't depend on a crypto package using invalid configurations, for example `GOOS=linux CGO_ENABLED=0 GOEXPERIMENT=systemcrypto`.

Reviewer: This seems confusing, I think a combination of ambiguity plus the configuration not actually being "invalid" in this case.
(E.g. `to build a binary that doesn't depend on (a crypto package using invalid configurations)` vs.
`to build a binary (that doesn't depend on a crypto package) using invalid configurations`,
also not totally clear what part of that the example is demonstrating.)

```suggestion
 - The build-time backend compatibility check now only runs when a crypto package is required for the build.
   - If your app doesn't depend on a crypto package, you may, for example, use `GOOS=linux CGO_ENABLED=0 GOEXPERIMENT=systemcrypto`.
   - If your app doesn't use a crypto package and you make a change that introduces a crypto package dependency, you will only encounter a compatibility check failure after the change. The change may be in your transitive dependencies: for example, depending on a new module that uses `crypto/sha256` may trigger the compatibility check. This is undesirable, but it's necessary to enable flexibility.
```

>  - It is now possible to build a binary that doesn't depend on a crypto package using invalid configurations, for example `GOOS=linux CGO_ENABLED=0 GOEXPERIMENT=systemcrypto`.

Reviewer: The doc should also note this behavior in the `Build option to use Go crypto if the backend compatibility check fails` section: acknowledge that when someone sees this error, it might not be because of their build setup, but rather because their source code might not have used `crypto` before. Another possible fix is to remove `crypto`.

Author: Good call. The fix you mention seems unrealistic, though, so I won't add it 😛.

Reviewer: I think it could easily happen: someone adds a dependency that uses a sha256 checksum for some boring reason, and they can decide to remove the dependency and instead implement the feature without a checksum (or with a non-crypto checksum) if no-cgo is important to them.

I don't think it's *horrible* to let someone deduce this for themselves, but might be good for us to help them connect the dots a little...

Reviewer: I think really though the path that needs to be clear is: a user gets this error and can easily look it up in the FIPS docs and understand why it came up for them. Transitive dependencies specifically seem to me like they might not be obvious. ("crypto" doesn't show up in the go.mod after all.)

Author: I get your point, but there are very few cases where not using crypto is the right fix, and I don't want to encourage people implementing their bespoke crypto algorithms(or third-party deps) that don't depend on crypto just to make the compiler happy.

I'll try to come up with something that we both can agree, though 😄 .

Author: Done!

Reviewer: > I don't want to encourage people implementing their bespoke crypto algorithms(or third-party deps) that don't depend on crypto just to make the compiler happy.

That's a good point, hopefully someone on their project will understand the crypto policy and make sure this doesn't happen, but the way the policy and enforcement works will put people in a difficult situation and I'm sure *someone* will take our doc as an inspiration for a bad workaround.

In the past we've taken an openness approach in this doc (describe how things work, even internal workarounds, because motivated people will find it anyway and just waste their time), but that was a while ago. Perhaps also something to reevaluate on a broader scale.
